
Curiculum Vitae

Name: Jeffrey McDonald Ralston
D-O-B: 9/3/1981
Address: 2/3 36 Towerhill Rd, Knightswood, Glasgow, G13 2HR
Telephone:  07594244838

Personal Statement;

I am a Web Developer with a Degree in Software Engineering and experience working on major software development projects. I am a  Full Stack developer  with skills in back end development with Python and Django, Relational Database design with MySQL, API implementation in Python and Front End Development with CSS/SASS and Javascript. In addition to this I can create the Graphic Design, Logos and  and Images for the site using traditional media and digital art techniques.

I believe that good communication is central to producing an outstanding website and I always strive to make sure the client is kept up to date with the development process from start to finish and ensure that they are happy with the end result.

Education:

BEng Software Engineering.  Edinburgh Napier University. 1998 – 2002
I graduated with a four year degree in Software Engineering which covered all aspects of the Software Life Cycle. Mathematics & Logic, Software Design & Development. Yourdon DeMarco Systems Analysis & Design, Functional and Object Oriented programming, primarily in C and C++, Distributed Systems, Relational Database Systems, Oracle SQL, Networks and Telecommunications and Software Verification and Validation

Web Programming with Python & Javascript  Harvard University 2023
The course covered developing dynamic web applications using Python & Javascript. Integral to this was using Django's powerful backend framework to make Database queries and serve content on demand to the Javascript client. The course covered creating Applications using relational databases (sqlite & MySQL) and implementing and using API's to serve client requests. To do this we were required to create websites for e-commerce, a social network, dynamic single page applications and mobile responsive apps.

Relational Database Design.  UNAM University. 2023
Course covered the Distributed Systems, OLAP vs OLTP database systems, ATOM, ACID. Conceptual Design, ERD Logical Design, Normal Forms, Physical Design and the full Design and implementaion of a database using MySQL and MySQL Workbench 

Web Development with HTML, CSS & Javascript.  IBM. 2023
Course covered all the main features of the core languages central to developing websites and gave instruction and examples of how to develop web applications using them. 

HND Graphic Art . Glasgow College, 2010-2012.
This was a two year HND in art and graphic art which I completed while ALSO selling my work at Art Fairs and Festivals. The course covered a variety of projects and themes and encouraged practical skills in drawing, painting, and screen printing. The course also covered graphic design using Photoshop, Illustrator and video production using Premier Pro 
Employment

Web Developer. Freelance 2022 – Present

Since the end of 2022, I have been honing my skills in Web development. It is something I was already reasonably familiar with as over the last ten years I have been building and maintaining my website for my art and print shop andhave been using Linux Ubuntu Full-time for everything for many years, so I had a good understanding of web development technologies. 
I am mainly focused on web development using CSS/ SASS and Javascript for the front end and  Django, Python, and MySQL on the Server side. To manage my projects I use git and Github and VSCode as my Code editor 
Since starting I have created Apps for a Social Network, an email client, an aution site and completed courses in web development , and relational database design with Harvard, IBM and UNAM 

Graphic Artist Freelance 2010 – 2022

In 2010 I took a break from work and signed up for a Diploma in Graphic Art which I completed in 2012. At the same time I started selling my paintings and drawings at comic cons and art festivals. 

When I completed the Diploma, I started a small business selling my work at events, exhibitions and in galleries. As well as delivering commissions for people. My day-to-day tasks involved organising events and exhibitions, book-keeping and keeping customers and clients happy as well as creating art and prints for exhibitions and for sale. During this time I had my work exhibited at the prestigious Glasgow Print Studio, Glasgow Art Club, and in venues and exhibitions around the city, and published in several independent magazines.

System Test Analyst
EDS, Sunderland, England 2008-2010
Working on a Govt project developing software for handling benefit claims. Analysing design documentation to develop test cases, preparing test data for the test environment, executing tests and reporting faults, carrying out regression testing and retesting big fixes. The testing and verification covered Positive, Negative and Regression testing. I was also requiredto attending test team meetings and report testing progress to my manager reviewing documentation and liasing with developers when necessary. 

Integration Test Analyst
National Grid, Wokingham, England 2007-2008
Carrying out system integration testing and unit testing on the Grid Electricity Management System. This involved, writing test cases following the requirements specification and the design documentation and carrying out tests to verify functionality, reporting bugs and performing retest and regression tests. The testing covered, Positive, Negative and Regression testing. Other aspects of the job involved using SQL to populate the database with test data and to query the database to ensure data was as expected during test. 


System Tester
British Telecom, Bracknell, England 2006-2007
Black box testing, working on the BT directory services software writing test cases by analising the requirements specification and the design documentation then executing them to test system functionality and raising fault feports. The testing included Positive and Negative testing, retesting bug fixes and Regression testing. 

Software Engineer
Edinburgh, Scotland. 2002 -2006
fter graduation I initially worked for GEC Marconi as a Junior Software Engineer working in Development and Test Departments.The job consisted of supporting the development team with all aspects of software design and development. This involved attending design and development meetings. Writing and maintaining code written in C++ under Unix and Implementing bug fixes assigned to me by the development team. I also was required to write utility software for the test department, creating test stubs, writing and executing test cases to validate software modules. 

I later became a member of the test team where I was involved in system integration testing and unit testing. This job entailed analysing the requirements and design documentation then writing test scripts and test cases to verify the software under test. This was done by manual testing and using automatic test tools, then reporting faults. When faults were fixed I restested the fix and carrying out regression testing. Other duties included writing utility software in C++ under Unix reviewing documentation and attending test team meetings. 







